---
layout: post
title: Shakshuka
tags:
  - entree
---

Shakshuka is Tunisian in origin but has become hugely popular in Jerusalem and all over Israel as substantial breakfast or lunch fare. Tunisian cuisine has a passionate love affair with eggs and this particular version of _shakshuka_ is the seasonal variant for the summer and early autumn. Potatoes are used during the winter and eggplants in spring.

## Ingredients

- 2 tbsp olive oil
- 2 tbsp Pilpelchuma (page 302) or harissa (store-bought or see recipe, page 301)
- 2 tsp tomato paste
- 2 large red peppers, cut into ½-inch / 0.5 cm dice (2 cups / 300 g in total)
- 4 cloves garlic, finely chopped
- 1½ tsp ground cumin
- 5 cups / 800 g ripe tomatoes, chopped; canned are also fine
- 4 large free-range eggs, plus 4 egg yolks
- ½ cup / 120 g labneh (store-bought or see recipe, page 302) or thick yogurt
- Salt

## Method

1. Heat the olive oil in a large frying pan over medium heat and add the pilpelchuma or harissa, tomato paste, peppers, garlic, cumin, and ¾ teaspoon salt. Stir and cook over medium heat for about 8 minutes to allow the peppers to soften.

2. Add the tomatoes, bring to a gentle simmer, and cook for a further 10 minutes until you have quite a thick sauce. Taste for seasoning.

3. Make 8 little dips in the sauce. Gently break the eggs and carefully pour each into its own dip. Do the same with the yolks. Use a fork to swirl the egg whites a little bit with the sauce, taking care not to break the yolks. Simmer gently for 8 to 10 minutes, until the egg whites are set but the yolks are still runny (you can cover the pan with a lid if you wish to hasten the process).

4. Remove from the heat, leave for a couple of minutes to settle; then spoon into individual plates and serve with the labneh or yogurt.
