---
layout: page
title : Pizza
categories: recipes, dinner
tags : [ recipes ]
---

# Ingredients

* 1 (1/4 ounce) package active dry yeast
* 1 cup warm water
* 1/2 teaspoon salt
* 2 teaspoons olive oil
* 2 1/2 - 3 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
* 2 pinches of sugar

## Directions

1. Proof yeast. Get water to around 115 degrees (read the yeast package to be sure), and pour 1 cup into a bowl. Add 2 pinches of sugar. Pour the yeast into the water/sugar mixture and stir. Let sit for about 5 minutes - you should see the yeast come alive.
1. Pour the water/sugar/yeast into a warmed Kitchen Aid mixer bowl.
1. Add salt and olive oil to the mixer bowl.
1. Add about 2 cups of flour and turn on the mixer with dough hook on speed 2.
1. One initially mixed, continue adding more flour until the dough sticks to the hook, but doesn't really stick to the bottom of the bowl. This will definitely take a lot more flour (1-1.5 cups) to get it to this state.
1. Pull dough from hook and place in a plastic bowl that has been liberally greased with more olive oil.
1. Place the dough in a warm oven for about 45-60 minutes to rise. I find filling a pot/dish with hot water and placing that in the oven will warm and humidify the air nicely.
1. Punch down dough.
1. Press into round cake pans greased with more EVOO.
1. Add toppings to your liking.
1. Bake for ~25 minutes at 400-425.

## Additional Notes

I think the most important parts are the yeast proofing, the warm humid oven for dough rising, and lots of olive oil.